Merkle DAGs are actually very simple and
we can build one on the command line
with just simple tools like Shazam,
because it doesn't actually matter at all,
how we format things like our links.
All that matters is that we
have a system for doing that so
we can embed hashes into our documents.
However we like we could just
say a message it's like, yo,
here's the hash and all of the properties
of Merkle DAGs will still hold so
long as we have a consistent
way of verifying them.
Even if it's ourselves running
a bunch of commands, whatever.
Okay, so we'll call it mdag.
Okay, so
what we can do now, the first thing we
need to build a Merkel DAG is a message.
So here's a message, Hello.
All right, so
this is five characters plus a new
line if we want to take the hash of that,
we can run this command shasum and
we get a hash back.
So now this is our first
message in our Merkel DAG.
If we want to make another message
that sort of says, maybe there's
some relationship between these two
documents like this one comes first and
then this one comes second.
So what we can do is we can embed that
hash into our second document and
then it will point back
at the first document.
So we can come up with a little impromptu,
I am the second doc, can be our message.
And then on the second line, we'll just
include the hash of the previous message.
So when we do that, we get a new hash.
And what's cool now is,
if we modified the first message,
it would be a completely
different hash and so
we can always verify
the contents of every message.
So this is sort of like
an example of a data structure.
Like if we have a third message,
I'm the 3rd doc we can include.
We can either point at the first message
in which case our data structure would
sort of branch,
cause it's a graph not just a log.
But if we want to keep it flat, we can
just embed the second hash to our message.
Now we have a new hash.
So you could imagine we could store each
of these messages under a file name,
that's that hash or we could store them
in level DB or store them any place.
That's basically all that you
need to build a Merkel DAG.
It's very, very simple idea with the hash.
>> What do you do with the final
hash you got, how will you use it?
>> Right, so if I,
if I know that this is the content.
If anyone in the world
hands me this message
I can verify that the hash
should be this right here.
So, if I know through some
out of band mechanism
that the head of this very
long potentially log or
graph of data is that, then this hash is
all the information that I need to verify
every document in that whole graph.
So if you know the hash of the head,
you can get all of the other documents
from untrusted peers on the network.
If you want your structure
to have other properties,
like if you want to ensure
that the users that
are allowed to publish
new messages are trusted.
You can use things like signatures,
you can embed those in with the rest
of this content and all of
the properties of hashes still hold, but
then you also get the benefits
of identity and verification.
So in that kind of a network
identities are just
public keys and anyone who knows the
public key and anyone who knows the head
of the hash can verify every other
piece of information about the network.
So you don't need to have like
a server that's trusted that's can
dispel the truth.
You can sort of, with these tricks,
know what's true for
yourself maybe just with a couple
of extra pieces of information.